But an investor told me this is the
worst idea he had ever heard. There's no
way we would ever succeed.
>> This is [music] Grant Lee, co-founder
and CEO of Gamma, the AI tool that turns
one prompt [music] into a finished
presentation. He started at the end of
2020 before the AI boom. Today Gamma has
100 million users and a 2.1 billion
dollar valuation. A lot of people are
trying to build an AI startup these
days. What is the one thing they should
copy from your playbook?
>> You can build anything, whether you're
vibe coding or just agentic coding, all
the capabilities feel like they're
there. You can build anything, the
question is should you? So, how do you
know? One thing you'll learn is friends
will lie to you. They don't want to hurt
your feelings, they'll tell you the
product is amazing. If your product is
valuable, they'll put their credit card
down to pay for the product. Then you'll
know you have product market fit.
>> In this episode, Grant breaks down the
three things that decided how to make
people fall in love with your product,
how to know if an idea is worth a year
of your life, [music] and how to pitch
it so investors say yes. Can you give me
their first 30-days plan, step-by-step?
>> First 30-days plan is
>> Thanks to HubSpot for sponsoring this
video.
A lot of people are trying to build an
AI startup these days.
What is the one thing they should copy
from your playbook when building in
2026?
>> Honestly, the number one thing is to
figure out who you're going to build
with. Um, you know, there's obviously a
lot of speculation around the single
person billion-dollar startup. I still
think, you know, even if that were
possible, why do it alone? It's so much
more fun building with a team. If you're
going to build a team, make sure you
choose the right team. So, a team needs
to look like a set of individuals that
maybe share the same ambition, share the
same values and principles, but should
be very complimentary in skill sets. So,
for us, I chose two co-founders that,
again, we worked together at a company
called Optimizely, became friends, but
we're also so different. We bring a lot
of different skills to the table. And
so, if you're starting to tinker today,
find people that are very complimentary.
You don't all need to be, you know,
developers. You don't all need to be,
you know, product people. Come up with
something where each of you bring
something and then start tinkering on a
bunch of different ideas. Find a problem
space that feels uh uniquely sort of
positioned where you as a team have the
best chance of actually going out there
and create something that's compelling
for the market.
>> Yeah, now that you're saying it makes
total sense, but back then you had to go
through so many difficulties. I read the
story where an investor hung up on you
saying it's the dumbest idea. Then you
were fundraising in your small
apartment. Your wife just had a second
baby. Talk to me about that time. How
did you know you should keep pushing?
And by the way, was that investor right
about anything at all?
>> So the investor, yeah, basically, you
know, um this was early on in pitching,
uh told me this is the worst idea he had
ever heard. Um said that, you know, not
only were we going up against massive
incumbents, but they had ultimate
distribution. So there was no way we
would ever succeed.
Um and I think, you know, he was
absolutely right. You know, in this
market, especially what we're trying to
build, there's going to be, you know,
incumbents. They do have distribution.
So as a product, you really have to
think about growth from day one. You
have to think about ways that your
product itself can distribute itself
just by use of the product. So leaning
heavily into things like product-led
growth and how do you build organic
virality? These are things you can't
afford to wait until many years later.
Like as you're building the foundation
of the product, you're trying to
integrate that into the philosophy of
building the product. So he was right
and I think for better or worse, we we
took that sort of painful feedback early
on and sort of internalized it and used
that as motivation to keep building. Um
for for me, you know, I think
trying to start the company when peak
pandemic, you know, uh my daughter was
just born. There was all the reasons not
to start the company.
It sounds [laughter] like the worst
time, but then in many ways it was the
best time because you also start feeling
the sense of what if we didn't do
something? Like the the regret you'd
have, you know? The the sort of life is
short mentality of hey, you know, like
why not just try something in the
hardest of times, you know, if if we
come out through the other end, we're
going to feel all the more sort of like
we you know, sense of accomplishment.
And so I sort of avoided the sort of you
know, the trap of saying hey, too much
going on. I'm just going to wait till
later, wait for perfect timing. I think
the reality is anybody that's starting a
business realizes there's no such thing
as perfect timing. There's you with an
idea that you just cannot help but like
think about night and day. And hopefully
if you have a team that's also equally
excited and and energized by idea, sort
of like you're just hungry to to go
after it. We were ready at the end of
2020 to to commit to this full-time. And
so for us it was a no-brainer. We were
going to go after it no matter what.
>> What about your wife? How did she take
that decision? Because you quit your
job, right?
>> so I I was in between jobs. I The last
startup I was at was acquired. So I was,
you know, exploring what was next. Um I
think this is another part about anybody
that's building companies like obviously
you have your partners internally at the
startup, your founders, your founding
team. And then you have your life
partner. And you have to be equally
transparent with both. And so we had a
conversation around hey, if I'm going to
do this, obviously I need, you know, the
full support of of you and and being
able to actually, you know, take a big
swing at this. And it means like, you
know, probably not taking a meaningful
paycheck for a period of time. It means
many late nights.
It means you know, sacrificing some
weekends to get work done. And so we all
we you know, we sat down and we felt
like yes, this was right. It felt like
the right thing to do. And and
obviously, you know, the the benefit of
building something special as a founder
means like you share that with your
family. If you build a meaningful
business, you bring that to your family
as well.
>> Okay, let's actually test your product.
You know, a lot of people who are
building today are going to be
fundraising. So when you do help me
create a perfect deck with Gamma
>> Yeah.
>> for a seed stage company and you've been
investing, you've launched this $10
million for
>> Oh, yeah. You raised a four, yes.
>> Yeah. So, you know what a good deck is,
right?
Let's imagine cuz I have a business
where we help people uh
learn languages uh specifically English
for universities. Let's make a deck for
a an app that helps people master their
English.
>> I want to hear your prompts.
All right. And this would be for a
services business or
>> it's an app that I'm trying to raise
for. It's
>> Okay. Um so, I'm actually going to use
this new um
uh agent feature down here that we have.
So, let's just say
um
>> You can also use this.
>> build a presentation uh pitch You want
to do a pitch presentation, right?
>> Yeah.
>> Well, let's just start there. And so,
it's going to do some thinking in terms
of, okay, what are the things uh that
would be important if you were actually
pitching this sort of app. And um this
will uh I'll start with a a question
here, which is what's your app's name
and maybe key differentiator.
Um would you like to describe it?
>> Yeah, let's say it's a This is like in
general general English language
learning app. Uh content is generated on
the go for you based on students'
current level and interests.
>> All right.
Very specific. Uh what what would you
like to cover? Problem, market. So,
there's some options here.
Um
>> What I I guess for fundraising
>> let's do all all of the above.
>> Yeah.
We can ask it to come up with the
number.
>> we're pitching VCs in in this case or
>> And angels, yeah.
>> Angels, all right.
>> 10 slides.
>> That's a perfect rate for
>> All right. So, we got our basic
scaffolding in place and then we'll hit
continue. In this case right now, we
were uh leveraging more of like web
search to kind of parse together, okay,
what are some interesting things that
would be relevant to an investor. If we
were doing this for real, we'd also
probably include maybe if you already
have like, you know, a one-pager or
like, you know, a notion doc with a lot
of things that, you know, describe like
the the actual, you know, product
requirements or the the, you know, the
specific features you intend to launch
with. All of that can be sort of
included. In this case, we'll we'll, you
know, keep it to basically what Gamma
can search out in the wild with a more
generic prompt here and see what sort of
can be created. So, we'll choose right
now it's kind of looking through. It's
adding some of the sort of content
things that are relevant. It created an
outline. We'll choose a theme and then
basically from here we can basically
generate the first draft of the deck.
>> How many pitches did you have to do to
get your first check?
>> I probably did over 100 pitches
in that
>> In how how many days?
>> It was over 2 weeks. So, I was
>> 100
>> I was living in London at the time. And
so, my my version of this was after the
kids, you know, put the kids to bed 8:00
p.m. around 8:00 p.m. I would pitch
between 8:00 p.m. and 2:00 a.m.
basically for almost 2 weeks straight.
And and this was, you know, the ability
to kind of, you know, do this really
quickly. Fortunately during the pandemic
you actually the benefit was you could
do all do it over Zoom. Today if you had
to drive from, you know, investor to
investor actually you probably couldn't
squeeze in that many. Zoom you can do
back-to-back. And so, I had I I I just
crammed it in. I would say even in those
100 pitches less than 50% success rate.
So, of course, you know, you you have to
figure out
how do you pick yourself up after
hearing no many many times. But I think
one thing you do also learn is that
in hearing yeses you can always ask an
investor, okay, what made you want to
invest in Gamma? Like what are the
things that actually caught your
attention? You fold that into much
earlier on in the pitch. You kind of
adopt your pitch. And then you can also
ask, you know, if you're
pitching to angels, angels you can ask,
okay, the ones that said yes, you know,
who else should I talk to because many
of these angels co-invest with other
investors. So, tapping into their
network, getting a warm intro, these are
things that just made it easier even
though it ended up being, you know, 100
plus, I got to the point where
near the end you're starting hearing
many more yeses. So, you start off with
like many Os, a few yeses, and you start
shifting it to like snowball into people
that give you warm intros and you can
build towards actually getting many more
yeses by by by the end of it.
>> Is there a mistake that you're seeing a
lot of AI founders are making when
fundraising?
>> I I'd say part of it is just they, you
know, you need to get into the mindset
of this is this is a game. There's a
two-week period or like again, going
back to time boxing, time boxing matters
a ton.
You don't want to get in position where
fundraising drags on indefinitely. Many
times people will say, oh, I'll just
give myself, you know, a couple months
to figure it out. Then there's no
urgency for investors and there is no
sort of process that that you're
running, you're just letting it drift.
So, one, define the timeline. Two, out
of the founders you should have one
person running point. Uh, it's very
distracting to have multiple founders
all kind of being dragged into hearing
all the nose, for instance, it could be
demoralizing. You need to have one
person that has the right mindset going
into it. And then, uh, yeah, number
three is like when you design the
process in a way that can help allow you
to snowball in the end, that just allows
you to close, you know, stick to your
timeline, be able to actually, uh, you
know, wrap things up in a really an
efficient manner. And go into you should
always go into a fundraise with as much
momentum as possible. So, if you're
early, that means like maybe having a
prototype you've really thought through
and it like really feels complete.
If you're later stage, obviously it
means like you're building towards, hey,
we're going into this fundraise with a
ton of revenue momentum or ton of
sign-up momentum. Go into it with
momentum, set that sort of time boundary
for yourself two or three weeks, get it
done in that process, have real urgency.
Uh, and I think that's where, you know,
the best founders treat this as like a
short-term sprint, get it done with,
move on to what's more important, which
is building the business, and not be
overly distracting to the rest of the
team.
>> What happens if in 2 weeks you haven't
raised what you wanted? Do you just stop
and go back to it in 6 months?
>> It depends on what the what you're
hearing from the market, right? Like if
if it's like a definitive no across the
board, everybody you've talked to, then
um
it probably means your product's not
ready, or there's something about the
market that is out of your your
business.
>> team.
>> Or could be your team, yeah. So it's
like you need to almost then be the most
you you have to be your own worst critic
in that sense. You have to self-diagnose
like, okay, what is the root cause? And
for every company it's going to be
probably slightly different. You know,
it could be that the team's not, you
know, the right team to go after this
market. Could be the market has too many
of these they've heard too many of these
pitches, so there's not appetite. Or it
could just be you've spoke to the wrong
investors. Maybe you pitched a bunch of
like fintech investors, where in fact
your business is a completely different
type of business. So each sort of, you
know, uh areas like one area to like to
potentially diagnose. And then if you
can find the root cause, then go back to
the drawing board and probably reset the
clock and say, "Okay, I'm going to give
myself another month to prep for this
new process." And then again, go into
that 2-week sprint. I would say more
often than not, it's because you're
going into the process without enough
momentum. If you're going into with
momentum, in most cases you should be
able to find a clear path to to be on
the raise. The hard part for most
founders isn't knowing that. It's
actually doing it when you're buried in
operational work. Rewriting the same
pitch deck for different investors,
researching leads one by one, starting
every LinkedIn post from scratch. So
much of it is repetitive work AI can
already handle. I learned this running
two companies and a content business
with 18 million followers and a team of
35. For a long time, the honest answer
to how to keep up was barely. So my team
and I started asking one question on
every task. What should stay human and
what should AI own. We turned that whole
system into a free bundle we made
together with HubSpot for startups and
we called it the workplace automation
kit. Inside are five Claude skills we
actually use internally. One helps write
investor updates and LinkedIn posts in
my voice. Another turns messy brain
dumps into structured reports. Plus two
creator skills my content team runs on
every script including the voice filter
that catches AI sounding copy before it
goes live. And my favorite is the
automate or hire roadmap. It's a
one-page framework for what to delegate
to AI, what still needs a human in the
loop, and what should never leave you as
a founder. The whole point is not
replacing people. You will be running
the same system my team uses every day.
You don't need a huge team to use any of
this. You can be a single founder or you
can be a knowledge worker automating
their workplace. Drop the skills into
Claude, takes 2 minutes. It's free. The
link is in the description. Thanks to
HubSpot for startups for partnering with
me on this. And we're back to the
interview with Grant. Let's look at the
deck. Let's see what Gamma built. Can
you, as an investor, can you rank rate
it?
>> Yeah, so this is talking about the
language app that learns you.
Um, it's talking about a billion uh
English learners, zero personalization.
So it's saying that, you know, a lot of
people go into uh um actually trying to
learn, but it in no way has it has this
opportunity been personalized. And so, I
mean, you know, obviously this is
generic. So the question is are you
building a product that actually
addresses this? Is there true
personalization in in the way you're
you're dealing with this? Of course,
these are this is intended to be a
placeholder. So, you know, you'd have to
go back and say is this, you know, are
any of these things relevant to how I'm
thinking about building uh you know, um
my app and uh and be able to flesh that
out quite a bit more. So, um I think
what we found is that, you know, often
times when you're starting off with
something that is a little bit more
generic in this case, you're using it as
more of like a thought partner.
>> Yeah.
>> You're saying, "Okay, these are the
potential questions or things that could
come up." And then you as the builder
should say, "Is any of this actually
relevant? Do I believe in any of this?"
And if not, then I'm going to go ahead
and replace it. And of course, this is
where you start iterating.
>> Cuz I remember when I was building an a
deck, it was just me and like looking at
some like Airbnb decks.
>> Yeah.
>> [laughter]
>> Like what's good?
>> And um, you know, I think one big thing
so traction of obviously is important
and to plug in your real num real thing
here. I think one big thing that's
actually missing here and and where I
would have probably
um changed the order is to talk about
your team way earlier on.
>> Mhm.
>> Um especially if you're an early stage
company, I always think about as like
when you're just pitching, you know,
your your product and you're just
getting going, an investor is really
just looking at the team and the dream.
It's really just those two things. And
you're answering you're trying to answer
for them why you and and why now, right?
There's probably been many different
startups that have attempted building,
you know, in this category. So what
makes your team unique and special? What
what sort of insights do you come that
actually offer something that feels
differentiated? And then why now? Is
there something else that has happened
such that there's an opening in this
market for for your team to go after?
These would be things I would actually,
you know, looking at this deck, I would
actually push all the way to the front
is like start off with that before you
start talking about like TAM or like the
market opportunity. Just talk a little
bit about like what is it about you your
your team that feels
truly differentiated?
>> Yeah, I feel like cuz so many people
have so many ideas ideas change so much.
You can ship a new product every week
like an MVP.
>> Yeah.
>> New MVP every week. It all comes down to
to the team. You were picking ideas
based on energy. Is that right?
>> Yeah, early on I think for us the the
the true sort of North Star was was
energy. Was this an idea where again,
you wake up in the middle of night
sometimes thinking about oh my god like
tomorrow I'm going to work on these
things cuz it's going to be so impactful
and I think that energy gets you to
point where you can create the early
versions of the road map, you can start
talking to early users, but you really
need that energy to be the fuel. And we
actually had when we first kind of
raised money, we actually the ambition
was to sort of help people change the
way they communicate. So we actually had
two different ideas. One was well, you
know, presentations are one form of
communication. People spend so much time
formatting, trying to design it rather
than the idea themselves. That could be
one category of an idea. The other was
this is again peak pandemic and so so
much work was shifting to like more
hybrid and virtual work. We thought what
if we created a virtual office
environment where you know, instead of
all being in the same room like we can
collaborate in a on a canvas and like
really share the work that's going on
and be able to communicate in a way that
almost emulates being in an office. We
sort of parallel path like building both
for about 6 months.
>> Oh, wow. This is a lot of work.
>> A good amount of work and we were
dogfooding both products at the same
time. So we would, you know, you know,
create presentations, you present
internally to each other. We would
sometimes present in the virtual office
and like there's some sort of like
cross-pollination of the ideas there.
And after 6 months, we realized that the
presentation idea each one of us could
like
have like this road map of all the
things we wish we could build. Felt like
even after 6 months we were barely
scratching the surface on like the
possibilities of what would the future
of presentations look like if we could
just invest fully in it. Whereas like
the the virtual office, we almost hit
this sort of ceiling and part of the
ceiling was part just due to our own
ability to imagine in the space. It was
like, well, we really felt like we, you
know, the virtual office no matter how
good it got, it could never really
replace the sort of magic that you get
within real life work and like being
able to work shoulder to shoulder with a
colleague. And so that was almost a
limitation of our own imagination. And
so we were like, okay, well, if we're
having trouble even like imagining the
next few months worth of road map for
this idea, let's go back to the one
where we can't stop thinking about it.
Let's go back to the presentations
because this is the one where every one
of us lights up when thinking about the
problem.
>> Do you use the same metric cuz I also
read this amazing story how you rebuild
the whole onboarding process?
Especially when you get or you were
getting good traction but you decided to
rebuild it and you started getting an
enormous amount of users. And in
general, when you rebuild a product,
when do you know when to stop iterating
on the features?
>> Yeah, I mean
probably never need to stop innovating
today especially given how fast things
are moving. But when you're early on,
the sort of, you know, one question
every founder will ask is how do I know
if I have product market fit? And I
think the the answer for many types of
businesses, maybe not like
infrastructure or B2B, but most like
consumer post-consumer businesses,
there's basically two things you're
looking for. One is does your product
have organic growth? Is it so good
people are telling all their friends,
family, colleagues about because if they
if it is, then you don't even need to
spend any money in sales marketing.
You'll just have more and more users
come to your door like actually try to
use your product. So that's step one. If
people are using your product, telling
all their friends about it, you have
organic growth. Step two is is there
willingness to pay? Um you know, if
you're a consumer product, maybe you can
monetize via ads or different formats.
But if you're you know, a true sort of
productivity or creative tool, people
need to pay for your tool if it's really
valuable and payment is always an
exchange of value. And if your product
is valuable, they'll put their credit
card down to to pay for their product.
So if you have those two ingredients, I
think then you'll know you have you
know, product market fit and you'll know
you have something where you can put
more fuel on the fire by obviously, you
know, investing in marketing and sales
in different ways. But without that, any
sort of sales and marketing is is
premature because the product itself
isn't good enough for it to actually
spread on its own and you're always
going to be fighting an uphill battle to
kind of retain customers.
>> Quick pause. My team and I are
celebrating one year of the Silicon
Valley Girl podcast. I know the channel
has existed for a while, but a year ago
I made a decision to focus on amazing
conversations with people who are
building our future with AI. And for a
whole year, we worked to bring you the
biggest founders and builders in AI so
you can keep up in this era and get
inspired. If you love what we're doing,
please subscribe and hit the
notification bell. It's what helps us
bring you the biggest minds of our
lifetime. Thank you so much for being
here. Talk to me about getting those
first thousand users. How did you get
them and
is there any advice on getting them in
2026?
>> Yeah, so when we first launched, um, you
know, may maybe like many founders, we
we tried to recruit all of our friends
to to, you know, use the product.
Anybody that created a presentation.
And, you know, we we were able to get,
you know, several thousand people just
to sign up through our network, extended
network. And of course, you ask your
friends, like how do you like the
product? And what one thing you'll learn
is like friends will lie to you. They
don't want to hurt your feelings.
They'll tell you the product is amazing.
The real truth is then going back and
looking at the usage, right? Like are
people actually using the product? And
so then we'd go in and, you know, many
of the friends that said they love the
product weren't even coming back to the
product, not using it. So then you start
honing in, okay, where is the real usage
of the product? What kind of use cases
are people actually, you know, leaning
into? And we saw early on a lot of, you
know, freelancers, solopreneurs, small
business owners that had to create a lot
of content using Gamma as the way that
they were presenting and sharing with
their clients and customers. So that's
where we understood, okay, there's a
pocket of users here. We should just be
spending much more time with them,
talking to them. And then of course,
over time, then you can find out ways to
like message to them specifically,
whether it's on social media or, you
know, if you're working with creators
and influencers, like really tap into
the personas where your product is the
most useful, and start getting that
flywheel to going of they're finding the
product, they're finding real value,
they're sharing the product with their
network, with their friends. And that's
where you can really start building kind
of the the initial core of your your
your kind of core users in the
beginning.
>> But you haven't done a lot of paid
marketing at the beginning. So was it
just word of mouth?
>> It's just word of mouth. Yeah, word of
mouth. Even today word of mouth is by
far, you know, the number one sort of uh
acquisition channel for us is like
people telling other people to use
Gamma.
>> That's fascinating. And but you also do
influencers, right?
>> Yeah.
>> And you do a lot of micro influencers
over going after big ones. What did you
learn in that process? Was there
an like an influencer campaign that
didn't work?
>> So the very beginning it was actually um
all organic uh influencers. People
basically learning about, you know,
Gamma and then just just sharing uh you
know, their ideas.
>> me. When I first saw it I did like a
video about, yeah.
>> We really appreciate that.
>> amazing. It's amazing tool.
>> Yeah, and so like, you know, that's
where we started seeing just in the very
beginning like some organic spikes of,
you know, people coming and and learning
about Gamma and like starting to use
Gamma. And so we realized, okay, well,
if this is already happening
organically, what could we do to reach
an even broader, you know, set of
creators and influencers out there. And
we started just testing a bunch. So um I
also in this process started to try to
figure out how could I be a creator
myself because I felt like to really
empathize with other creators, I I kind
of needed to go through the on the
journey myself and like just understand
how hard it is, right? To even build an
audience, come up with content,
share information in a way that feels
like authentic and and really genuine
and like you you you need to like build
that muscle, right? And so for me it was
like, okay, I'm going to start by
learning how to do this. And then when
we do work with influencers and
creators, I'm going to onboard all of
them myself. And I'm going to drive
>> you know how to do that, right?
>> how to do it, but I'm also still
learning, right? Like it's helpful for
me to like go down and say, okay, rather
than just saying, "Hey, go, you know, go
and showcase Gamma." It's like, "Okay,
let's actually sit down and think about
your audience specifically." And what I
actually learned was that many of these
creators struggled with presentations
cuz they were never learned it in
school, they never, you know, learned it
on the job. and so I got to actually
unveil kind of the magic for them. And
then specifically for their use case,
like, you know, if they were targeting,
you know, real estate professionals, we
would think through, okay, how do we
actually package this up in a way where
the use cases we're showing are
relevant, make sense, the way we talk
about the product, like resonate with
their audience, and we can brainstorm a
ton. And that for me was also a learning
opportunity because then I could really
say, okay, what do the best creators do?
How do they like write a good hook? How
do they come up with like a structured
story in a short amount of time? How do
they capture people's attention? And you
know, it was I was also sort of like,
now I could teach them about the
product, they learn how to use Gamma,
they could talk about Gamma in a very
authentic way, and then in the process I
can become a better creator myself and
translate that into, you know, many
founders today have the chance to be
their company's sort of megaphone or
amplifier, right? Like anytime they want
to share information, if you have your
own audience, you should be able to
package up that narrative in in the
right way, too. And I did so by just
learning from, you know, the best
creators out there, like how can I
actually build this muscle myself? And
it definitely felt like there was some
good synergy there.
>> And you're active on X and LinkedIn,
right?
>> Try to be on active on X and LinkedIn,
yeah. And and I think this is where,
yeah, many, you know, customers will
reach out, many partnership
opportunities come to fruition because
of those, you know, because of the
audiences that I've built there. And
again, barely scratching the surface,
but more I want to do, and
I think it just feels very rewarding to
build to start building an audience.
>> Yeah, just wanted to highlight it for
everyone. Like 10 years ago, when I was
talking to entrepreneurs, the sentiment
was you're not taken too seriously if
you're actively posting on social media.
Now, I think it's such an inevitable
part of being a founder because this is
how you hire, this is how you learn the
marketing channel, and this is how you
just meet the peers.
>> Totally. And I think there there is a
negative stigma because, you know,
sometimes, you know, this is more like
5-10 years ago, where people almost felt
like they were tooting their own horn,
they want to like, oh, hey, look at me,
look at me. I think you need to reframe
it. Like if you have an audience and
hopefully your audience overlaps with
your core user base, you're trying to
provide as much value to them as
possible. Like you're not talking about
your product all the time. In fact, you
should be talking about your product
very little. You should be talking about
things that your audience cares about,
has questions about. Obviously in this
day and age, everyone's curious about
how to apply AI to their work lives. How
do they, you know, how do they sift
through all the noise? How do they
maintain a sense of like productivity
without just becoming insane because
there's just too much to like try to do
in any one given day. So, I think as a
founder, you have a chance to figure out
what are the, you know, with your
experience and your background and what
you're building, what can you
instill on your audience to like inform
them and keep them educated? That value
in itself should be where like all the,
you know, the ability to build an
audience comes from. It's not about
tooting your own horn or like really
just talking about your product all day.
Have you looked at users who are coming
from LLMs when ChatGPT recommends Gamma?
>> we're seeing we're tracking on a
newsletter. We're just seeing crazy open
rates when people find us through LLMs.
>> Totally. Yeah, that's actually been one
that's also trending very positively
both in terms of people, you know,
landing on you know, Gamma's website but
also converting long-term. So, I think
we're early days. It's still a
relatively smaller portion of overall
traffic but it's definitely growing and
it's exciting to think about what this
could look like obviously in a couple
years and you know, every business wants
obviously to diversify like how
customers hear about this you know, so
that you know, obviously you want to
build out activate multiple different
channels at once and it does feel like
LLMs, you know, chats
like ChatGPT, Claude are going to be,
you know, meaningful channels for us in
the future.
>> Talk to me about pricing in general. So,
you're you start with free, then it's $8
and then it goes up to $90, right? How
do you come up with pricing for an AI
product? And also, it's dependent on how
the models price themselves, right?
>> Totally. So, yeah, there's a lot of
different moving parts. I think every
startup today needs to be thinking about
pricing as something that they're
probably constantly experimenting with.
It used to be, you know, you know, 5, 10
years ago, you kind of set it and forget
it. You come up with pricing once and
maybe revisit it every several years. I
don't think companies today have the
luxury of doing that.
You constantly need to be thinking
about, okay, the tension between like
seat base versus usage base, how your
product evolves, the different segments
of users. So, we have users that are
individuals versus, you know, B2B
customers that may want to buy in a
completely different way. So, I mean,
the honest answer for us is this is
something we're still constantly
experimenting with. You also want to do
so in a way where pricing, you know,
pricing you're trying to align the value
you provide to your user. And then the
other side of the equation is you need
to be able to build a durable business.
So, are you
actually, you know,
building a business that's able to
operate profitably or efficiently? The
worst thing you could be doing is to be
essentially selling dollars at a
discount, right? Like, if you're selling
dollars at a discount, feels good,
you're making money, but you're doing it
so very unprofitably. So, these are all
things where constantly moving target. I
think the best you can do is being
willing to adapt and then user user base
to kind of figure out what's the right
way to balance both the value they're
seeing and the cost you incur as a
business.
>> Do you have any strategies on converting
customers from free into paying? Cuz you
had this competitor, Zomato, that shut
down and they had
25 million users, 3.5 million AR. You
had 40 million users at 20 million AR.
So, you're doing something there
converting customers. Can you give
advice to AI founders on how to do that?
>> I think it will sound generic, but it
just comes back to like what is the
quality of the product, right?
Every single category, if it's a
meaningful category, there's going to be
multiple competitors.
And so, your ability to kind of ignore
the competition and focus on your users
is all that really matters. Are you
delivering something to them that
competitors aren't, you know, either
delivering on or on focused on, right?
Like even within our own category, you
know, there's many people that
focus on kind of the design portion of
like creating a presentation. We want to
focus on like the communication, the
storytelling. So like how do we abstract
design, the need for design completely
away? And so you're going to approach it
differently depending on your sort of
vision for this category, and then
you're specifically like your customers
you're serving, what are their needs?
Many different [snorts] types of
customers might have different needs for
presentation tool. Like you need to
figure out where in that space do you
actually want to play?
>> And your your strategy has been product
first from what I'm hearing, from what
I'm experiencing. And you only have 50
people. Is it still the same?
>> We're a little bit bigger than that, but
like when we were crossing 100 million
in ARR, we were 50 people, yeah. So it's
a relatively small team.
>> Ren just said he crossed 100 million in
revenue with only 50 people. This is
exactly the kind of thing I love to
explore in my Future Proof newsletter
with a community of 18,000 builders and
creators. Twice a week I share the best
practices from my conversations with
CEOs and founders, the AI tools I'm
actually using, and the skills worth
learning right now. It's free, the link
is in the description.
>> Question that's very I think is on point
for 2026. Do you think you can triple
your revenue with the same amount of
people? Is there technology there?
>> Yeah.
I think the answer is yes, and then
there are the the nuance is how do you
triple it, right? Because we're trying
to build a global business, and so this
means, you know, we have a lot of users
in Europe, a lot of users in Asia. We
still feel like we need to build a
physical presence there, and so ignoring
that for too long, just assuming hey,
we'll just grow from San Francisco and
not, you know,
grow head count, I think would be the
long wrong long-term decision. And so we
are trying to grow now our footprint in
these different offices, which means
growing the team much bigger than it
was, you know, obviously a year ago. So
I think, you know, every business should
think about what is their ambition as a
business. If it is to be a company that
has global presence, if it is to serve
many different segments of users, so
like we have the prosumer end and the
B2B, you know, set of users that are
much different in profile, and then also
serving developers through our platform
or API MCP part of our business. Those
all require different teams and like
different
places of like emphasis in terms of
building out the the complete product
and platform. Those require head count.
And so, if we were just focused purely
on prosumer, growing that as fast as
possible, I think we could stay pretty
lean. But if our ambition is to build a
global business that can operate across
segments, I think we're going to need a
much bigger team.
>> And also the question is, is there a
longevity in just growing the consumer
business like trying to do everything by
yourself?
>> Trying to do everything. Yeah, that that
is another, you know, tension I think
every startup is feeling today,
especially today, because when it feels
like you can build anything, you know,
whether you're vibe coding or just a
genetic coding, all the capabilities
feel like they're there. When it feels
like you can build anything, the
question is, should you?
>> Yeah.
>> And if not build everything, where are
you going to focus, you know? And so,
um this is this is both like the the
challenge and I think the opportunity
building today. Like you have the
feeling of being limitless in terms of
going out there, but you also need to
provide your team the right level of
focus and and to be kind of committed to
some path of this is what we really care
about and these are the things we don't
and being committed to that for as long,
you know, long of a time horizon as
possible.
>> Your principle is to hire painfully
slow.
Is there a role that you wanted to have
in your company, but you're not hiring
because you think it's, you know, you're
you're still like debating whether you
need it or not?
>> I think it goes back to like every, you
know, stage of company, you need to ask
yourself sort of where you're at and and
what are the limiting factors for you to
continue to grow.
Often times the moment
a startup raises a little bit of money,
they think like, okay, I need to
immediately open the floodgates on, you
know, sales and marketing and just like
hiring as many people there to to build
top of the funnel, build demand." But,
going back to like, is that the best way
to grow an early product? Probably not.
You know, it actually means going back
to focusing on the core, like making
sure the core product is so good, going
back to organic virality is like so good
people tell all their friends about. We
wanted to focus there. So, rather than
like open the aperture in terms of
hiring across the board, when we were
super early, it was all about
reinvesting in the core, hiring the
right, obviously, engineers, product
designers. We We actually probably over
invested relative to what people would
say, like in product design. We had it
was almost a third of the company was
product designers early on. And most
people were like, "Why would you invest
so much in the product design?" We're
like, "Well, that matters a ton to us."
So, even though we were small in, you
know, like the relative overall head
count, we were probably over indexed on
product designers because we felt like
that was super important. And to get
true organic virality, we needed to be
exceptional in that one area of, you
know, that one function. And so, uh
every stage you're going to have to look
at. Now that we're much bigger, we can't
afford not to hire sales and marketing
because we have a massive audience to go
after and we have a B2B business that
still requires a ton more relationship
building, a much more consultative
approach to to like actually, you know,
expanding within these larger companies.
And so, we can't just, you know, hiring
people only slow at this stage doesn't
mean we we never hire sales and
marketing. It means now that we're at
the stage, we we feel like we've earned
the right. And we can gradually open up
the aperture a bit more. If we had done
that two or three years ago, I think
that would have been premature.
>> How many of your employees are
generalists versus specialists?
>> I feel like nearly all employees are
what I would still define as generalists
today, even though they spike in
different areas. So, you know, for
instance, our head of design,
exceptionally talented designer, very
visual, but he also knows how to code.
And he was coding even before like, you
know, vibe coding was was more
accessible to to most designers, but the
fact that he can now ship something like
end-to-end, test it, like get early
versions into hands of users, that's a
superpower, right? And so, he can cross
domains where, you know, traditionally
it'd be a designer or UX researcher that
does a little bit some of this like
early, you know, sort of investigation
or like early research. He can do that
himself, develop the early prototype,
ship the early prototype, get something
into the hands of users to actually get
feedback on and oftentimes then ship
something into production, like almost
like completely end-to-end. That just
wasn't really possible before, but for
us, like we try to look for that the
spirit of like a generalist across every
function, whether it's, you know, sales,
marketing, engineering, product design.
And I think that allows you to have a
relatively lean team that can, again,
like play across multiple domains at any
given point in time. And I think in
general that just means a team that can
be pretty collaborative, too, because
you have deeper empathy for what each
function can bring to the table and and
like when you're bringing something to
to an engineer, for instance, you've
already done so much work to think
through like, okay, how do I make this
right so the handoff is as seamless as
possible? These things I think are hard
to quantify, but when you have a team of
generalists, there is some magic in like
working together.
>> But does this model ever break or start
breaking with scale? Do you feel like
there's a there will be a point in time
when you will need to start hiring more
specialists?
>> I definitely think so, and uh but but
there's also the sort of competing sort
of race of like as you get bigger, you
want more specialization.
LLMs and AIs also getting better at
being specialized in certain domains,
and so, there's almost like this race
now of like at what point does AI also
kind of fill in the remaining gap and
the generalists can go deep when they
need to. TBD, I think certain functions
like I think we're noticing, you know,
like within like finance and legal,
still pretty hard, like you still want
specialization in specific types of
questions that come up, like you don't
want to just trust like an LLM,
obviously, to give you the right answer.
But for a lot of like sales and
marketing where, you know, your goal
isn't to replace the human, it's to
augment or like to really automate as
much so that the human can focus on what
they're good at, which is the
relationship building, again the
consultative approach. You're trying to
carve out, you know, if they only have a
certain number of hours in a day, you
don't want them to be wasting any time
like fiddling with, you know, business
systems or any of that. They should be
spending time with customers. And so our
goal is like those generalists can help
automate as much of the work that is not
customer facing as possible, and the
rest of the time there is there special
you know, their specialty is the the the
work with customers. We're we're trying
to carve out as much time as possible
for for them to do that.
>> Yeah, that makes total sense. With all
the companies deploying agents, what was
the last process that you completely
delegated to an agent?
>> I yeah, I think one thing we've learned
is that you we even with agents, you're
not completely delegating things away.
Like a human still needs to supervise,
yeah.
And, you know, agents can still be
fragile, they can get go off course. And
so, um, I think the best cases are still
where the human and agent are working
hand in hand. And of course maybe over
time you have multiple agents all, you
know, working with the same human and
they can then be subdividing into
different tasks. But we're still so
early, you know, we're not at the stage
where yet where I think any of our
teammates feels like, okay, 100% agent
work now, now I can go do something
else. It's more like, okay, agent can
actually help me provide a ton more
leverage, can obviously reduce a the
time to complete a task, and then can
help me do the things that I would just
wouldn't ever gotten to cuz
my time in the day is too precious. And
so these there's certain aspects of
that. You fast forward several years
from now, then I think we're talking
about maybe agents doing way more, uh,
being much more self-directed and and
truly being like a a partner where, um,
they you can leverage the the agent sort
of work force in a way that today is
still seems like we're It's bit out of
reach.
>> What's your favorite agent?
>> I mean, we build a lot of things
internally to to help with um you know,
things like customer research or even
just understanding, you know, what what
what should we be building next? Like
what are pockets of of things that are
going to be useful? So, like, you know,
taking all the input we get, you know,
we we look at obviously things like
churn analysis, like what are people
saying? We look at when new users sign
up, you know, what are they using? How
are they leveraging the product? These
are all inputs and so we want to be able
take those inputs to say, "Okay,
now [snorts] stress test like some of
the other things we're we're thinking
about building. Like how useful is this
to to an end user? Um where might we
kind of uh add value in ways that we
aren't even, you know, considering
today?" Like, you know, really being a
sparring partner there. I think those
are things where um you can now with
much more like every company now has so
much more data they can actually work
with. Um
taking advantage of that is is is really
I think where the the magic really
happens.
>> So, your analyst is basically data
analyst meets product and they make
decisions
>> Yeah.
>> Somebody who watches video has a startup
idea, built a deck with uh with Gamma.
Uh can you give me their first 30 days
plan, step-by-step?
>> First 30 days plan is uh
spend all 30 days talking to your
customers.
>> [laughter]
>> Really is I think it feels like, you
know, if you're assembling the team, you
need to be uh laser-focused customer
obsessed from the very beginning and
nothing else really matters in the long
run. Um I would
>> you wouldn't start with a co-founder?
>> Well, I mean, I I'm assuming if you've
raised money, you have a co-founder so
>> like you just had an idea and you're
like, "Okay, I'm going to start." Is it
the co-founder or you start talking to
clients first to figure out who you need
as a co-founder?
>> I personally think you shouldn't uh jump
into the idea before the team
because the team should help inform what
the idea actually is. You might have
like, "Hey, I'm again going back to our
specific, you know, thing which is we
think like, you know, visual
communication can be improved." But we
weren't going to be prescriptive into
how we actually solve that. Let's as a
team start tinkering. Like, what can our
team deliver in the space that feels
differentiated? And once we had that,
that's when we said, "Okay, we feel like
there is something here. We don't know
exactly what the product might look like
in 3 or 4 years, but there's something
here. Let's go raise money so we have a
chance to actually build this for, you
know, over the next several quarters."
Once you have that, then it's about you
you have the the early team, you flip
all of your energy into spending time
with customers and early users and like
testing like, does the my thing even
deliver on, you know, uh anything that's
valuable to you? And if not, let's let's
course correct. Let's make sure we're
not heading down a path of like
delivering something that has zero value
to you as a customer. Let's make sure
we're uh listening to your problems,
fine-tuning our own sort of
understanding of the problem space, and
then building the right thing over the,
you know, the long haul.
>> So, for someone who um
came up with the idea, found the team,
which is kind of hard if you are not in
the ecosystem. Yeah. Like, finding the
right team. But, would you say this deck
will help uh that company raise money?
>> I would say yes, but it it's it will
help you uh
the it'll help you sort of
have the right conversations.
But, ultimately, the investor is going
to judge you based on your level of
conviction and their level of conviction
in in your team to go after this market.
So, use this as a tool.
And every great tool can help you, you
know, open the right doors and obviously
have some of the right conversations.
>> And we'll wrap up with one final
question. So, if you could send one
message to the founder version of
yourself in 2023, when your growth was
stagnating, 6K users, just start there,
what would you say?
>> It'd be some version of uh just hang on.
You know, like every founder will go
through many ups and downs.
Um if you're surrounded by a team that
um again shares like that same level of
ambition and and the and principles,
then you [snorts] got to just lean uh
you know, lean on them as much as you
can and then still have belief that you
can make it through. The early days are
the hardest because it very much is they
describe it as like the idea maze.
You're like
bumping into wall after wall and not
knowing if you've made any sort of
meaningful traction. And so, you know,
for us it was like hang on for as long
as possible, make sure we don't lose
belief in the longer term, you know,
mission of trying to help people
communicate their ideas. Like we feel
like that should be something that we
could
commit to for a very, very long time.
And so, hanging on to that belief that
we can make a difference, like that's
what, you know, for us actually did
change the the overall trajectory of the
business.
>> And it comes from the energy, I guess,
that the product is giving you, right?
Is that what's the source of that
belief?
>> It comes from it's it's it's the energy
in knowing that what you're working on
should help improve people's lives. And
like the the the energy you're putting
into it will hopefully result in amazing
outcomes for for your customers and
users. That energy obviously, you know,
it needs to be built up. It's like the
conviction that needs to you're
constantly trying to fill up as much as
possible. And And if you're building the
right things, I think you'll you'll wake
up every morning being excited about the
things you're working on.
>> Thank you so much, Grant.
>> for having me.
>> Thank you. Grant built Gamma to a $2
billion valuation. If you want another
founder's story from the AI era, watch
my conversation with Young Zhao, the CEO
of Opus Clip. He gave me one of the best
frameworks I've ever heard for picking a
niche when there are already 50 AI tools
in every category. Click right here
or here.
Somewhere.
And also in the description.